docs(nextjs): Add Next.js-specific metrics documentation (#15997)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/javascript/guides/nextjs/metrics/index.mdx

---
title: Set Up Metrics
sidebar_title: Metrics
description: "Track custom counters, gauges, and distributions from your Next.js application."
sidebar_order: 8
sidebar_section: features
beta: true
---

Sentry Metrics let you track custom application data beyond errors and traces. Track business metrics like orders processed, API response times, or cache hit rates across all Next.js runtimes.

<Alert>
Metrics is in open beta. [Share feedback on GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/discussions/18055).
</Alert>

## Usage

<SplitLayout>
<SplitSection>
<SplitSectionText>

### Metric Types

| Type | Use For |
|------|---------|
| `count` | Events (orders, clicks, API calls) |
| `gauge` | Current values (queue depth, connections) |

> | `distribution` | Value ranges (response times, payload sizes) |

Reviewer: The `distribution` part does not break well on smaller displays:

<img width="1113" height="470" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bdcde6de-7012-4473-a2b1-36aa0b72e709" />

</SplitSectionText>
<SplitSectionCode>

```typescript
Sentry.metrics.count("api_calls", 1, {
  attributes: {
    endpoint: "/api/orders",
    user_tier: "pro",
    region: "us-west",
    user_id: user.id,
    order_id: order.id,
  },
});
```

</SplitSectionCode>
</SplitSection>
</SplitLayout>

## Options

Configure these options in **all three runtime files** (`instrumentation-client.ts`, `sentry.server.config.ts`, `sentry.edge.config.ts`).

<SplitLayout>
<SplitSection>
<SplitSectionText>

### beforeSendMetric

Filter or modify metrics before sending. Return `null` to drop a metric.

</SplitSectionText>
<SplitSectionCode>

```typescript
Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  beforeSendMetric: (metric) => {
    // Drop specific metrics
    if (metric.name === "debug_metric") {
      return null;
    }

    // Add attributes
    metric.attributes = {
      ...metric.attributes,
      processed: true,
    };

    return metric;
  },
});
```

</SplitSectionCode>
</SplitSection>

<SplitSection>
<SplitSectionText>

### Disable Metrics

Set `enableMetrics: false` to disable metrics collection entirely.

### Flush Metrics

> Metrics are buffered and sent periodically. To flush immediately:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Metrics are buffered and sent periodically. Use this snippet ot flush immediately -
```
